---
layout: post
title:  "Make ssh behave like local terminals on Mac"
date:   2020-12-17 17:10:42 -0500
---

Do you use a Mac and have long-running ssh session to a workstation
or server? Would you like those ssh sessions to behave just like
local terminals? How about being able to restore sessions after a
disconnection or reboot of your Mac? Then you've come to the right
place. Here I'll show you how to set up iTerm and tmux to do all of
that and more.

1. Install [iTerm](https://iterm2.com/) on your Mac

2. Make sure
[tmux](https://linuxize.com/post/getting-started-with-tmux/) is
installed on your server

3. Optional, but highly recommended: set up [ssh public key
login](https://kb.iu.edu/d/aews)

4. Create a new Profile in iTerm (Profiles -&gt; Open Profiles -&gt;
Edit Profiles -&gt; + button), with the following options:

 a. Name: a name that's meaningful to you

 b. Shortcut key: if you use this connection often, set a shortcut
 key for you to start it quickly

 c. Command: `ssh -tt user@server tmux -CC new -A -s iterm`


This will now reconnect to the session "iterm" or create a new one if
a session doesn't exist.

## Shell Integration

iTerm2 features [shell
integration](https://iterm2.com/documentation-shell-integration.html)
which does all kinds of wonderful things from marking command results
to displaying images to automating file uploads and download.
Installing shell integration is easy. When you're connected to the
host you want to use, go to iTerm2 -&gt; Install Shell Integration
and it will automatically run the commands to do the installation.


The catch is that shell integration is disabled by default with tmux.
To fix that, add the following line to your `.bash_profile` right
before the shell integration is triggered:

``` bash
export ITERM_ENABLE_SHELL_INTEGRATION_WITH_TMUX=YES
```

## Fixing hostname

Some hosts don't set hostname correctly or don't set the proper
domain name (I'm looking at you Andromeda). To fix this, again edit
your `.bash_profile` and add the following line above the shell
integration:

``` bash
export iterm2_hostname=foo.example.com
```

Obviously, replace `foo.example.com` with the correct fully qualified
hostname.